PIM-7852: add documentation about pim_job_product_batch_size (#1047)
akeneo/pim-docs: technical_architecture/performances_guide/batch_page_size.rst

Job product batch size
======================

A product catalog is unique to one's need. It is configured with a custom number of attributes, families, locales, channels, etc. Those different combinations may affect the import/exports performances.

> Indeed the size of the products will define how much RAM they will take to be processed. During a product import/exports, we regularly flush the processed products into the database to avoid too much memory consumption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Indeed the size of the products will define how much RAM they will take to be processed. During product import/exports, we regularly flush the processed products into the database to avoid too much memory consumption.
```

> But, if we flush them too often, the transaction time can slow the process: flushing is not free and doing it too often will be inefficient. On the other hand, if we flush too sporadically, the RAM consumption can increase to a point where the PHP's garbage collector is called too many times and slows down the import/exports.

Reviewer 2: Actually, it's not the transaction time that is the bottleneck (and so, flushing). However, Doctrine probably adds an overhead.

We batch to have the benefit of not loading everything everytime from the DB.
We clear because the avilable memory is limited and we can't load the whole database in memory.

Reviewer 3: We can add that during at the end of the batch, we index the batch of product in Elasticsearch. If we reduce the batch size, we index more often. And the cost of communication between PHP and Elasticsearch begins to cumulate, and being counter productive.

> But, if we flush them too often, the transaction time can slow the process: flushing is not free and doing it too often will be uneficient. On the other hand, if we the flush are too separated in time, the RAM consumption can increase to a point where the PHP's garbage collector is called too many times and slows down the import/exports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But, if we flush them too often, the transaction time can slow the process: flushing is not free and doing it too often will be inefficient. On the other hand, if we flush too sporadically, the RAM consumption can increase to a point where the PHP's garbage collector is called too many times and slows down the import/exports.
```

> But, if we flush them too often, the transaction time can slow the process: for each iteration, we clear the doctrine cache (to free some memory), index the products (so more communications between PH and elastic search) and update the mysql database. On the other hand, if we the flush are too separated in time, the RAM consumption can increase to a point where the PHP's garbage collector is called too many times and slows down the batch jobs.

Reviewer 3: What is PH ? Maybe you mean PIM?

Reviewer 3: "if we the flush are too separated in time" => "if the flushes are too separated in time"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But, if we flush them too often, the transaction time can slow the process: for each iteration, we clear the doctrine cache (to free some memory), index the products (so more communications between PHP and elastic search) and update the mysql database. On the other hand, if we the flush are too separated in time, the RAM consumption can increase to a point where the PHP's garbage collector is called too many times and slows down the batch jobs.
```

Author: I meant PHP

> That's why there is no universal answer to the `pim_job_product_batch_size` parameter and if you encounter performance issues on your import/exports, you may need to tweak it.

Reviewer 2: api is import and export as well but we don't have any batch size.
`Flat import file`, `jobs`,  check it with PO

Author: Yes, please

Reviewer 4: To me API is enrichment but you can talk about job profiles because it is also true for bulk actions like mass edit and publish products

> That's why there is no universal answer to the `pim_job_product_batch_size` parameter and if you encounter performances issues on your import/exports, you may need to tweak it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's why there is no universal answer to the `pim_job_product_batch_size` parameter and if you encounter performance issues on your import/exports, you may need to tweak it.
```

> To do so, try to increase it if your batch job seems unexpectedly slow and your product have a reasonable size. Or try to reduce it if the batch processes are too slow and your product have a lot of product values. To know if your products are above of below average size, refer to :the performance guide:`/maintain_pim/scalability_guide/representative_catalogs`.

Reviewer 2: We should definitively delete these "representative catalogs" (part of my todo list ...). It's totally outdated.

Author: ok, what can I do in the meantime?

Reviewer 2: I think we should not refer to the page.

> To do so, try to increase it if your batch job seems unexpectingly slow and your product have a reasonnable size. Or try to reduce it if the batch processes are too slow and your product have a lot of product values. To know if your products are above of below average size, refer to :the performance guide:`/maintain_pim/scalability_guide/representative_catalogs`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do so, try to increase it if your batch job seems unexpectedly slow and your product have a reasonable size. Or try to reduce it if the batch processes are too slow and your product have a lot of product values. To know if your products are above of below average size, refer to :the performance guide:`/maintain_pim/scalability_guide/representative_catalogs`.
```
